Step 1: Clone Lab Instructions
------

Open the VSCode Terminal.
Navigate to the AWSLabs directory
Pull the latest lab files:
	git pull https://github.com/awscloudessentials/intro-to-aws-lab.git

Open the Lab8 file in the editor.
Use this file to document all the steps you take while completing the lab.


Step 2: Launch EC2 Instance
------

Go to the EC2 Dashboard.
Click Launch Instance.
Configure the following:
	- Name: Webserver
 	- Security Group: Allow HTTP (Web Access) from 0.0.0.0/0
 	- Key Pair: Use an existing key pair or create a new one

Launch the instance.


Step 3: Create IAM Role for SSM
------

Go to the IAM Dashboard.
Click Roles → Create Role → Next.
Select:
	- AWS Service → EC2

Click Next.
Search for and select:
	- AmazonSSMManagedInstanceCore

Click Next.
Assign a Role Name:
	- SSM-EC2-Access

Click Create Role.


Step 4: Attach IAM Role to EC2 Instance
------

Go back to your EC2 Dashboard.
Select the instance you created.
Click Actions → Security → Modify IAM Role.
From the drop-down, select the role created in Step 3.
Click Update IAM Role.
Verify the role is attached:
	- Click the Security tab → Details in the EC2 Dashboard.
Take a screenshot for confirmation.


Step 5: Access EC2 via AWS Systems Manager (SSM)
------

Go to the AWS Systems Manager Dashboard.
Under Node Management, click Fleet Manager.
Wait 5–15 minutes for your instance to appear under Managed Nodes.
Click Refresh to check.
Take a screenshot for confirmation.


Step 6: Run Commands Using SSM
------

In Systems Manager, click Run Command under Node Management.
Search for and select:
	- AWS-RunShellScript

Under Command Parameters, paste the following script (updated for Amazon Linux 2023):

bash
#!/bin/bash
# Amazon Linux 2023 setup

dnf update -y
dnf install httpd -y

systemctl start httpd
systemctl enable httpd

echo "<h1>Hello World from $(hostname -f). This webserver was installed with AWS Systems Manager</h1>" > /var/www/html/index.html

Scroll to Targets → Choose instances manually and select your EC2 instance.
Scroll to Output Options → unselect Enable an S3 bucket.
Click Run Command.


Step 7: Verify Command Execution
------

Refresh the Run Command Dashboard until the status shows Success.
Take a screenshot.
Copy your EC2 Public IP or DNS Name.
Open a browser, paste the address, and verify the webpage displays:

	Hello World from <hostname>. This webserver was installed with AWS Systems Manager


Take a screenshot for verification.
Send the Public IP or DNS Name for confirmation.


Step 8: Cleanup and Submission
------

Clean up AWS resources:
	- Terminate the EC2 instance
 	- Remove IAM Role if not needed

Return to VSCode.
Edit the Lab8 file and document all steps you followed.
Save the file.
Push the changes to your personal GitHub repository: